README.md, before:

# AI-Powered Interactive UI Generator

A modern web application that generates dynamic, interactive user interfaces through natural language conversations with AI. Built with Astro and React, featuring a beautiful glassmorphism design and real-time UI rendering.

## Features

- ✅ **Natural Language to UI**: Describe what you want, and the AI generates interactive UI components
- ✅ **Streaming AI Responses**: Real-time streaming responses for instant feedback
- ✅ **Component-Based Architecture**: Rich set of UI components (cards, buttons, forms, lists, charts, etc.)
- ✅ **Modern Design**: Glassmorphism effects with purple theme and dark background
- ✅ **Responsive Layout**: Fully responsive design that works on all devices
- ✅ **Type-Safe**: Built with TypeScript for better developer experience

## Quick Start

### 1. Install Dependencies

```bash
npm install
```

### 2. Configure Environment Variables

Create a `.env` file in the root directory:

```env
GEMINI_API_KEY=your_api_key_here
```

### 3. Start Development Server

```bash
npm run dev
```

Visit http://localhost:4321

### 4. Build for Production

```bash
npm run build
npm run preview
```

## Project Structure

```
├── src/
│   ├── components/
│   │   ├── chat/          # Chat UI components (React)
│   │   └── ...            # Other Astro components
│   ├── lib/
│   │   ├── a2ui/          # UI renderer and component factory
│   │   └── a2ui-renderer.ts
│   ├── pages/
│   │   ├── api/
│   │   │   └── chat.ts    # AI API endpoint
│   │   ├── index.astro    # Landing page
│   │   └── chat.astro     # Chat interface
│   └── styles/
│       ├── a2ui.css       # UI component styles
│       └── chat.css       # Chat page styles
└── package.json
```

## How It Works

1. **User Input**: User types a natural language request (e.g., "Show me a list of top websites")
2. **AI Processing**: The request is sent to Google Gemini API with structured output constraints
3. **UI Generation**: AI returns a JSON structure describing UI components
4. **Rendering**: The renderer parses the JSON and creates interactive React components
5. **Interaction**: Users can interact with generated components (buttons, forms, etc.)
6. **Action Handling**: User actions are sent back to AI as structured messages for further processing

## Supported Components

- **Basic**: Text, Image, Button, Divider
- **Layout**: Row, Column, List, Card
- **Form**: TextField, Checkbox
- **Data**: Chart, Progress, Badge, Statistic
- **Media**: Video, Audio, Gallery
- **Advanced**: Calendar, Timeline, Tree, Carousel

## Technology Stack

- **Framework**: Astro 4.x (SSR mode)
- **UI Library**: React 19
- **Language**: TypeScript
- **AI**: Google Gemini API
- **Styling**: CSS with glassmorphism effects

## Development

### Adding New Components

1. Create component factory function in `src/lib/a2ui/components/`
2. Add component styles in `src/styles/a2ui.css`
3. Register component in `src/lib/a2ui/component-factory.ts`

### Customizing Styles

Modify `src/styles/a2ui.css` to customize component appearance. The design uses:
- Glassmorphism effects (backdrop-filter, transparency)
- Purple color scheme (#6432e6, #e62e8b)
- Dark background (#0a0a0a)

## License

MIT

## Acknowledgments

This project is inspired by the A2UI protocol specification for AI-generated user interfaces. The implementation follows a similar approach to structured UI generation through natural language processing.

Commit message:

docs: Update project description to AI Interactive Chat UI

README.md, after:

# AI Interactive Chat UI

An AI conversational platform with interactive UI components. Enables structured bidirectional interactions through text and UI, dramatically improving efficiency.

## Features

- ✅ **Natural Language to UI**: Describe what you want, and the AI generates interactive UI components
- ✅ **Streaming AI Responses**: Real-time streaming responses for instant feedback
- ✅ **Component-Based Architecture**: Rich set of UI components (cards, buttons, forms, lists, charts, etc.)
- ✅ **Modern Design**: Glassmorphism effects with purple theme and dark background
- ✅ **Responsive Layout**: Fully responsive design that works on all devices
- ✅ **Type-Safe**: Built with TypeScript for better developer experience

## Quick Start

### 1. Install Dependencies

```bash
npm install
```

### 2. Configure Environment Variables

Create a `.env` file in the root directory:

```env
GEMINI_API_KEY=your_api_key_here
```

### 3. Start Development Server

```bash
npm run dev
```

Visit http://localhost:4321

### 4. Build for Production

```bash
npm run build
npm run preview
```

## Project Structure

```
├── src/
│   ├── components/
│   │   ├── chat/          # Chat UI components (React)
│   │   └── ...            # Other Astro components
│   ├── lib/
│   │   ├── a2ui/          # UI renderer and component factory
│   │   └── a2ui-renderer.ts
│   ├── pages/
│   │   ├── api/
│   │   │   └── chat.ts    # AI API endpoint
│   │   ├── index.astro    # Landing page
│   │   └── chat.astro     # Chat interface
│   └── styles/
│       ├── a2ui.css       # UI component styles
│       └── chat.css       # Chat page styles
└── package.json
```

## How It Works

1. **User Input**: User types a natural language request (e.g., "Show me a list of top websites")
2. **AI Processing**: The request is sent to Google Gemini API with structured output constraints
3. **UI Generation**: AI returns a JSON structure describing UI components
4. **Rendering**: The renderer parses the JSON and creates interactive React components
5. **Interaction**: Users can interact with generated components (buttons, forms, etc.)
6. **Action Handling**: User actions are sent back to AI as structured messages for further processing

## Supported Components

- **Basic**: Text, Image, Button, Divider
- **Layout**: Row, Column, List, Card
- **Form**: TextField, Checkbox
- **Data**: Chart, Progress, Badge, Statistic
- **Media**: Video, Audio, Gallery
- **Advanced**: Calendar, Timeline, Tree, Carousel

## Technology Stack

- **Framework**: Astro 4.x (SSR mode)
- **UI Library**: React 19
- **Language**: TypeScript
- **AI**: Google Gemini API
- **Styling**: CSS with glassmorphism effects

## Development

### Adding New Components

1. Create component factory function in `src/lib/a2ui/components/`
2. Add component styles in `src/styles/a2ui.css`
3. Register component in `src/lib/a2ui/component-factory.ts`

### Customizing Styles

Modify `src/styles/a2ui.css` to customize component appearance. The design uses:
- Glassmorphism effects (backdrop-filter, transparency)
- Purple color scheme (#6432e6, #e62e8b)
- Dark background (#0a0a0a)

## License

MIT

## Acknowledgments

This project is inspired by the A2UI protocol specification for AI-generated user interfaces. The implementation follows a similar approach to structured UI generation through natural language processing.
